# PhD Thesis

## Smart City Applications for Urban Traffic Management

### Summary

In this thesis, a Smart City application is presented, called the Robocar World Championship. The application is in the research domain of smart cities and autonomous cars and can offer a platform to investigate theories and conduct new research ideas. The system itself consists of several components written in C++11 using shared memory segments and several external libraries, such as the Boost Graph Library. One component can visualize traffic in urban areas, another makes the system suitable to organize programming competitions. Two very important components of the system are the Robocar City Emulator, which can simulate traffic in urban areas, and the Automatic Sensor Annotations, which can measure traffic in cities.

The Automatic Sensor Annotations component collects data in urban areas, it is called the Real-Time Traffic Analyzer. It consists of a hardware and a software part. The hardware part is a custom embedded system that can be assembled into cars. Its basic operation is to count cars on a given road segment, aggregate the data, then send data to a central server infrastructure. The part consists of a Digilent Zybo development board, a camera module, a GPS module and a GSM module. The method used for the counting of the cars is a Haar-cascade based object detection algorithm. The development of the component conducted in the Vivado IDE and the software running on the board was developed in C++11. The collected data is sent to the server with the use of the MQTT protocol as a Google Protocol Buffer message. The software part is a server application that can visualize and analyze incoming data. The Real-Time Traffic Analyzer has been tested and was suitable to conduct measurements and data collection.

The output of the Real-Time Traffic Analyzer is an aggregated data that can be served as an input for the Robocar City Emulator. This component can simulate traffic in urban areas. The original version of the system was inspected and was proven to be wrong regarding its simulation algorithm. So, we developed an algorithm that can provide a stationary distribution of the cars in a given time period. The proposed algorithm is based on graph theory and a Markov model of probability theory. The solution uses OpenStreetMap as a geographical data source and an open dataset, called the Taxi Trajectory Prediction. Based on these data sources a graph and a transition matrix on it can be built. This matrix contains the transitions between adjacent nodes, i.e., a probability vector for each node. This probability vector shows the probability of transition to the adjacent node for each node. In this thesis, the method of the construction of such a matrix is given. In addition, it is shown that the proposed algorithm can simulate such traffic where the distribution of cars is stationary and this stationary distribution is unique for a given graph and transition probability matrix.
